---
layout: post
category : web micro log
tags : 
---

# ... a defence of the luddites

When we think about the the "unupgradeable" we are often told of stories in software, or hardware, how many of these actions are infactr
anti-consumerist. This is all true. But there are a certain series of objects where being unupgradeable are part of their charm.

These items are why there are still used and havent been replaced by superior technologies. These are items like watches, eyepieces; functional
pieces of equipment which is analogue; not touched by the realms of the micro-chip revolution. 

But what happens when some of these items are indeed touched by tecnology? We have the apple watch, which for all it does probably doesn't replace the ["glance at your timepiece" functionality](http://daringfireball.net/2015/04/the_apple_watch)
or more pervasively what happens when farmers can no longer fix their [tractors because of computers on board their tractors](http://www.wired.com/2015/02/new-high-tech-farm-equipment-nightmare-farmers/). So I think there is
every right for people to avoid moving to new technologies; if the current technologies serve their needs. I think there is indeed some kind of
warranted fear in our lives.

Maybe you might say, well all we need is more education! Perhaps this is partially true, and this has of course grown the maker movement, with their 3d printers, and
soon to be circuit boards. This is probably why so many people still want to push or go back to their dumb phones; to avoid the complexity of this world. 
To me there is a very real and strange fear, of the unknown in my generation and the next. 

Perhaps that is why people rely on the mechanical processes over the digital; because they understand. This is indeed a challenge for my current generation and the next. 
We live in a world where all this complexity is abstracted away, and we need not worry about the details. But the unfortunate aspect is our
thirst for creativity, innovation and curiousity about the world and why things are the way they are are lost. 

That is something which I still hold dear.
